Clean up, fix and improve grammar, phrasing, syntax/links and overall prose quality in charter (#29)
python/docs-community: docs/workgroup/charter.rst

===================================
CPython Documentation Working Group
===================================

Purpose & Common Goals
----------------------

> This workgroup will support efforts to improve

Reviewer: The title says "working group" but this says "workgroup" -- appreciate your point on consistency in the PR body, but it feels odd to leave it unadressed in a copyediting pass such as this.

Author: I do _hope_ to address this here; per our discussion on Discord as well as mentioned here, I'm just hoping to get some clarity on nomenclature first before going through and changing it everywhere.

The problem is the PSF itself is not at all consistent on this. Just on their [main workgroup page](https://www.python.org/psf/committees/) alone, they use "workgroups" in the title, "work group" in the top level headings and "working group" in many of the resolutions and descriptions (and both workgroup and work group in others). In total, "work group" is used 40 times (mostly in the headings), "workgroup" 15 times and "working group" 12 times. Plus "committee" is used 46 times, aside from in the URL itself, mostly interchangeably with the previous three.

"Workgroup" (and WG) is used on the [example workgroup page](https://wiki.python.org/psf/Example%20PSF%20Workgroup%20Page) and the [example charter](https://wiki.python.org/psf/Example%20PSF%20Workgroup%20Charter), but the title of [every "workgroup" page](https://wiki.python.org/psf/Contents#id4) uses "Working Group". and the charters and info pages use a mix of all three. Ughhhhhh...

and maintain CPython's documentation through curation,
internationalization, and special projects. Its focus will also include
tutorials, how-to documents, the devguide and other documentation in support
of the PSF's mission to expand the global Python userbase.

> Quality and effectiveness will be key goals as we build a

Reviewer: Present tense
```suggestion
Quality and effectiveness are key goals as we build a
```

Author: The simple future tense is used throughout the rest of the "Purpose & Common Goals" section. If we do want to change it, we should do so consistently throughout, not just in one arbitrary place.

Reviewer: Yep, I think we should change it everywhere; I didn't want to spam with tense adjustments though! The review comment here ("present tense") is rather terser than I remembered, though, so sorry for that.

A

Author: Sorry, yeah, that was very unclear. 

Anyway, done.

> diverse team of community members, documentarians, and core developers.

Reviewer: Is "documentarians" a term of art? Never heard of it before, and it feels sort of made up!

Reviewer 2: Write the Docs [has a dedicated page](https://www.writethedocs.org/documentarians/) for defining this term.

[According to dictionary.com](https://www.dictionary.com/browse/documentarian), the word has a meaning that somewhat fits our usecase.

> documentarian
> [ dok-yuh-men-tair-ee-uhn, -muhn- ]
> noun
> Movies, Television. a filmmaker, producer, etc., who specializes in [documentaries](https://www.dictionary.com> /browse/documentary).
> a writer, photographer, or other artist whose work constitutes a document or [documentary](https://www.dictionary.com/browse/documentary) of an aspect of life.

Author: In addition to echoing what @pradyunsg , I've heard it commonly used around the Python documentation sphere, yes.

Reviewer: Sounds good, thanks for the explanation.

A

Author: One more reason to give us kind of permissions on here (at least triage...)

Things the workgroup could do:

- Develop the governance model for docs
- Be the steering council for docs
- Be the authors of doc guidelines
- Be the authors/editors of docs
- Request grant funding from PSF, if needed
- Form an editorial board for docs including core devs, educators, and

>   documentarians in the Python community

Reviewer: Given that the group has started, this list feels out of place -- perhaps it should move to a TODO document? A speculative list seems off for a terms of reference.

Author: I agree with that logic, but that would be a pretty significant content-relevant change in what I scoped to be a copyediting-focused PR with minimal substantive changes to the actual content/meaning.

Reviewer 3: I think it's fine for a charter to include a list of possible work. It helps makes the details more concrete.

Active Time
-----------

This workgroup will be active indefinitely while supported by the Python
Steering Council.

> Core Values & Internal Governance

Reviewer: This section is just on values and removing members for behavioural violations, not internal governance. Perhaps:

```suggestion
Values & Behaviour
```

Author: This is part of the official [PSF Charter Template](https://wiki.python.org/psf/Example%20PSF%20Workgroup%20Charter) that per that page, it "must" include, so I don't think its wise to change it here.

Reviewer: We already break those rules by having the charter listed here and not on the wiki ;-)

A

Author: AFAIK, that's just because the charter is a draft and the group isn't officially fully spun up yet, since it isn't listed on any official PSF sources that I can find. It is stated as a hard limitation ("must") in terms of including sectoins, so I don't see why we should break with that due to one community member's personal verbiage preference, given the description is still quite apt for the contents.

---------------------------------

The core values for this group are:

- Respect
- Support
- Positive Atmosphere
- Constructiveness

> - Integrity

Reviewer: Minor: does a working group need its own statement of values? I assume the values statement from the PSF would be adopted by default absent this section?

Author: I don't disagree that all PSF workgroups should share a common set of core values rather than every charter repeating them and/or inventing their own, but this is [required per the PSF charter template](https://wiki.python.org/psf/Example%20PSF%20Workgroup%20Charter) so again, I don't think its wise to change it ourselves without consulting the PSF.

The workgroup adopts the `PSF Code of Conduct <https://www.python.org/psf/codeofconduct/>`_.
Any action by a workgroup member, as decided by a majority of the group,
that violates the principles in the Code of Conduct will result in that member

> being removed from the workgroup.

Reviewer: Pedantic governance point -- how does this fit with "*The Python Steering Council are permanent members of this working group*"? Are such ex-officio members included in this section?

Author: The CoC governs SC members just like any other member of the PSF/Python project. If they committed a suitably serious CoC violation sufficient to merit removal, presumably that would be handled by the CoC committee rather than us, but they would be removed from the SC, and thus from the workgroup as well.

Reviewer: I agree. That's not what this text says though -- and whilst unlikely we should be accurate. I'm happy to suggest this one (and the TODO one above) in a follow-up PR if you don't want to include here.

A

Author: IMO, this is a bit too pedantic to need to be explicitly denoted in the work(ing)? ?group's founding charter, but its ultimately up to the work group members, not either of us.

Rules & Guidelines
------------------

> - At any time, the Python Steering Council may, at its discretion, add any number

Reviewer: "at its discretion" is a broader clause than "At any time", perhaps:

```suggestion
- At its discretion, the Python Steering Council may add any number
```

>   of non-voting observers to the working group to observe and participate in
>   discussion.

Reviewer: "observers to ... observe" feels redundant, perhaps just leave out from "group"
```suggestion
  of non-voting observers to the working group.
```

Author: ```suggestion
  of non-voting observers to the working group to participate in discussion.
```

I agree with your point about "observe", but I think it does add value to clarify that they may "participate in discussion", just not vote (as opposed to simply observe), so I suggest the above.

> - The group's purview includes the Sphinx documentation included in the Python

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The group's remit includes the Sphinx documentation included in the Python
```

>   source repository, including the doc theme, as well as separate projects such

Reviewer: Will need to be applied manually for line wrapping
```suggestion
  source repository, including the `Python Docs Sphinx Theme <https://github.com/python/python-docs-theme>`, as well as separate projects such
```

Author: > Will need to be applied manually for line wrapping

No need, it can be done right here:

```suggestion
source repository, including the `Python Docs Sphinx Theme
<https://github.com/python/python-docs-theme>`,
as well as separate projects such
```

  as the developer guide. Translations and infrastructure will be managed by

>   Julien Palard or a Steering Council appointed member.

Reviewer: another pedantic governance point, better to specify the role than the individual.
```suggestion
  the Internationalisation Lead, currently Julien Palard.
```

Author: ```suggestion
  the Steering Council-appointed Internationalisation Lead,
  currently Julien Palard.
```

Re-add the "Steering Council appointed" bit that was removed.

- The group will also maintain documentation of meetings and best practices.

> - The editorial board will include people outside of the core developers who are

Reviewer: The document switches between working group and editorial board -- I think the two are the same, but we should use one term for consistency

Author: The editorial board is nominally a separate but related entity from the WG, at least based on my reading of the Charter.

>   tech writers or educators.

Reviewer: Do we want to restrict to just these categories?

Author: Those seem the most reasonable, but we could hedge here—that would be a content-relevant change, though, and not within my purview.

Decision-Making Procedures
--------------------------

Decisions will be made using the voting procedures outlined below. Anyone may
propose or request a topic for a decision.

In general, a topic for decision should address one of the workgroup's goals:

- Improve or maintain the state of Python's documentation effort by some
  noticeable or measurable amount.
- Increase the participation of contributors to documentation.

To be considered for membership, prospective members must send an

> email introducing themselves, along with a description of why they want to be

Reviewer: An email to whom?

Author: No idea. This needs to be updated, but not within my purview as a copyeditor.

Reviewer: After this gets merged I'll capture all of the problems I found that are broader than strict copy-editing so that they dion't get lost.

A

Author: Good point, though this actually is mostly captured by #3

The working group will communicate via the
`Documentation category <https://discuss.python.org/tags/c/core-dev/documentation>`_
on `Discourse <https://discuss.python.org>`_.

The existing `Doc-SIG mailing list <https://mail.python.org/mailman/listinfo/doc-sig>`_
will continue, but will not be the primary
communication method for the workgroup or for recruiting additional contributors.
From time to time, the working group may post announcements, such as meeting
details, to the Doc-SIG list.

The group will also meet on a regular basis to discuss the state of Python's
documentation. Topics might include:

- The size of the documentation PR backlog, whether it's growing or shrinking,
  and what to do about it.
- Which parts of the documentation require updating most urgently.
- New documents/sections that should be created to meet community needs.

Budget
------

The working group will not require a dedicated budget in its initial phase.
If needed, the working group may ask the board of directors for any funds needed
(for meetings, writers, translators, software development, etc.).

Participants
------------

The Python Steering Council are permanent members of this working group.

> The initial workgroup members include:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The initial workgroup members are:
```

- Carol Willing
- Ned Batchelder
- Mariatta Wijaya
- Julien Palard (Lead, Infrastructure/Localization)

> The workgroup may expand to up to 20 members, with a 25% or higher representation
> of community members who are not core developers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The working group may have up to 20 members, of which at least a quarter must not be core developers.
```

Author: ```suggestion
The working group may have up to 20 members,
of which at least a quarter must not be core developers.
```

Fixed line breaks (for now)
